.\" RCSID @(#)$Id: coexec.man,v 1.3 2003/08/25 18:26:27 rk Exp $
.\" LIBDIR
.TH "COEXEC" "3rko" "28 Feb 2002"
.SH NAME
coexec \- a collection of routines communication to other executables.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include "coexec.h"

FILE *preprocess(FILE *instream, char **argv, int fd);
FILE *postprocess(FILE *outstream, char **argv, int fd);

FILE *prefilter(FILE *instream, char **argv);
FILE *postfilter(FILE *outstream, char **argv);
int   closefilter(FILE *filterstream);

FILE *invoke(char **argv);
int   spawn(FILE **childin, FILE **childout, char **argv);
int   spawn3(FILE **childin, FILE **childout, FILE **childerr,char **argv);

char *prefile(char *infile);
int   unlink_prefile(void);

#  ifdef __cplusplus
	}
#  endif
#endif /* _COEXEC_H_ */
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP 15
.I invoke
returns a file pointer to the stdout of the child process, unless
there is an error, then it returns (FILE *) NULL.
.TP
.I spawn
sets up a child process and communications to the process via the
stdin and stdout FILE streams.
.I argv
is a command vector, where argv[0] is the executable to run, and
argv[1],... are the commandline options.
Must have the last one argv[N] = NULL to terminate the vector.
.TP
.I preprocess
open a process to filter the given input stream.
.TP
.I postprocess
open a process to filter the given output stream.
.TP
.I prefilter
same as
.I prepocess
except tied to STDIN
.TP
.I postfilter
same as
.I postpocess
except tied to STDOUT
.TP
.I prefile
finds the given file, checking for common compressed file variants
(.gz, .Z, .z).  If compressed then uncompresses and returns the
temporary file name.
.TP
.I unlink_prefile
removes the temporary file, if one was generated.

.SH SEE ALSO
coexec(3rko),invoke(3rko),spawn(3rko),spawn3(3rko),filter(3rko),
prefile(3rko),uvec(3rko),
execvp(2),fork(2),pipe(2),fclose(3),wait(2),system(3)

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The errors are handled by rkoperror() (if RKOERROR is defined),
else it goes to stderr.
In either case, all child process errors go to stderr.

.SH BUGS
None discovered yet.

.SH AUTHOR
R.K.Owen,Ph.D.

.KEY WORDS
