.\" RCSID @(#)$Id: nameread.man,v 1.4 2007/07/19 18:10:28 rk Exp $
.\" LIBDIR
.TH "nameread" "3rko" "12 May 1995"
.SH NAME
nameread \- a namelist-like reads a line of text for variables and values
.SH SYNOPSIS

 #include "librko.h"
 defines the following
 #define NAMETOL(a,b)	nametol(a,#b,&b)
 #define NAMETOD(a,b)	nametod(a,#b,&b)
 #define NAMETOS(a,b,n)	nametod(a,#b,b,n)

 int nametol(const char *line, const char *name, long *value);
 int nametod(const char *line, const char *name, double *value);
 int nametos(const char *line, const char *name, char *value, size_t n);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I nameread
\- reads a line of text and finds the integer, double, or string variable name 
and sets the value.
This is somewhat simular to the FORTRAN NAMELIST functionality
(but not really).
It ignores any line that begins with '#' as the first non-white
space character.
nameread returns 0 if it doesn't match the variable name,
returns 1 if it successfully matches and sets the value.

.I nametol
reads the line and parses for the name and if it matches then
it deposits the long value into the variable.  Use the macro
.I NAMETOL
if the name and the variable's name match.

.I nametod
reads the line and parses for the name and if it matches then
it deposits the double value into the variable.  Use the macro
.I NAMETOD
if the name and the variable's name match.

.I nametos
reads the line and parses for the name and if it matches then
it deposits the char * value into the variable.  Use the macro
.I NAMETOS
if the name and the variable's name match.

.SH SEE ALSO
atol(3),atof(3),strncpy(3)

.SH NOTES

Example input file:
    header = Data from the last test run
    description = test run configuration file
    var	=	-1
    set = -3
    # a useless comment
    index   =		3
    r1=2.0
    r2	=2.0
    r3  =  3.00
    # the following will have no effect
    extra	= 4.

The following code fragment demonstrates how to use the nameread
functions.
Note that for most efficient use is to read a line from the input
file and to loop over the entire list of variables to parse.

Note that notfound and r4 will not be reset by the input data file.

 #include <stdio.h>
 #include "librko.h"

 int main() {
 long var=1, index=1, SET=1, notfound = 99;
 double r1=1., r2=1., R3=1., r4 = 99.;
 char buffer[200], header[80],DESC[80];
 int found = 0;
 ...
   while(fgets(buffer,200,inputfile),!feof(inputfile)) {
       found =+ NAMETOS(buffer, header, 80);
       found =+ nametos(buffer, "description",, &DESC, 80);
       found =+ NAMETOL(buffer, step);
       found =+ NAMETOL(buffer, index);
       found =+ NAMETOL(buffer, notfound);
       found =+ nametol(buffer, "set", &SET);
       found =+ nametod(buffer, "r2", &R3);
       found =+ NAMETOD(buffer, r2);
       found =+ NAMETOD(buffer, r1);
       found =+ NAMETOD(buffer, r4);
   }
   printf("found %d variables to set in inputfile\n", found);
 ...
 }

.SH AUTHOR
R.K.Owen,Ph.D.

.KEY WORDS
