.\" RCSID @(#)$Id: rkoerror.man,v 1.3 2002/02/08 16:26:01 rk Exp $
.\" LIBDIR
.TH "RKOERROR" "3rko" "12 May 1995"
.SH NAME
rkoerror \- a package of routines for handling error messages
associated with the librko library.
.SH SYNOPSIS

 #include "librko.h"
 extern int rkoerrno;

 void rkoperror(const char *s);
 char *rkostrerror(void);
 char *rkocpyerror(const char *s);
 char *rkocaterror(const char *s);
 char *rkopsterror(const char *s);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.TP 15
.I rkoperror
Similar to
.I perror
and it prints the
.I librko
error message to stderr.

.TP
.I rkostrerror
Similar to
.I strerror
in that it returns a pointer to the
.I librko
error message buffer.

.TP
.I rkocpyerror
Copies the message to the 
.I librko
error message buffer.

.TP
.I rkocaterror
Concatenate or appends the message to the 
.I librko
error message buffer.

.TP
.I rkopsterror
Paste or prepend the message to the 
.I librko
error message buffer.

.PP
The following are the values that
.I rkoerrno
can take on.
The purpose is to detect an error condition in cases when a librko function
may not unambiguously indicate an error condition.
An error condition is indicated when
.I rkoerrno
is non-zero.
The list of acceptable values are given by the following macros in librko.h
.TP 15
RKO_OK
Everything is OK ... no problems whatsoever
.TP
RKOGENERR
A general error and also indicates exceptional conditions that should
not ever be executed.
.TP
RKOSIGERR
A signal error or signal function error.
.TP
RKOSIGNAL
A signal has been sent.
.TP
RKOMEMERR
A memory error, usually associated with the malloc-like functions.
.TP
RKOIOERR
Indicates an input/output error of some type.
.TP
RKOUSEERR
User error.  The input to the librko function includes some obviously incorrect
values.

.SH SEE ALSO
perror(3),strerror(3)
.\" crontab(1),stat(2),libmon(8)

.SH NOTES
Anything that may cause an overflow returns (char *) NULL.

.SH BUGS
The 
.I librko
error message buffer is only 1024 characters long and resulting error messages
longer than this are truncated.

.SH AUTHOR
R.K.Owen,Ph.D.

.KEY WORDS
