.\" RCSID @(#)$Id: spawn3.man,v 1.3 2003/08/19 17:36:03 rk Exp $
.\" LIBDIR
.TH "SPAWN" "3rko" "2 Jun 1995"
.SH NAME
spawn3 \- spawn3 a child process with stdin, stdout, and stderr
stream communication.

.SH SYNOPSIS

.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include "coexec.h"

int spawn3(FILE **childin, FILE **childout, FILE **childerr, char **argv);
.fi

.SH DESCRIPTION
.I spawn
sets up a child process and communications to the process via the
stdin, stdout, and stderr FILE streams.
.I argv
is a command vector, where argv[0] is the executable to run, and
argv[1],... are the commandline options.
Must have the last one argv[N] = NULL to terminate the vector.

.I spawn3
returns the child pid if successful, else < 0 an error.
Pass in the address to the FILE streams
.IR childin , childout ,
and
.I childerr
for communication to the spawned process.

.SH SEE ALSO
coexec(3rko),invoke(3rko),spawn(3rko),uvec(3rko),
execvp(2),fork(2),pipe(2),select(2),fclose(3),wait(2),waitpid(2),system(3)

.SH NOTES

If both stdout and stderr outputs need to be read, then the calling program
should
.I select
between the two file streams since the child process may be writing
to either at any time.

.nf
 /* stdall - collects and outputs the stdout,stderr, and exit status
  * takes all the options and just passes them on to a sub-process
  */
 
 #include <stdio.h>
 #include <sys/types.h>	/* waitpid,select */
 #include <sys/wait.h>	/* waitpid */
 #include <unistd.h>	/* select */
 #include <sys/time.h>	/* select */
 #include "coexec.h"	/* spawn3 */
 #include "uvec.h"
 
 #define MAXBUFF	512
 
 int main(int argc, char *argv[]) 
 int main(int argc, char *argv[]) {
 	FILE	*childin,
 		*childout,
 		*childerr;
 	pid_t	 childpid;
 	int	 status,
 		 retexit = 0;
 	char	 bufout[MAXBUFF],
 		 buferr[MAXBUFF],
 		*prgname;
 	fd_set	 allfds, cfds;
 	int	 maxfd,selval, cnt;
 	struct timeval alltv, tv;
 	uvec	*cerr;
 
 	prgname = *argv++;
 
 	/* spawn the child process */
 	if ((childpid = spawn3(&childin,&childout, &childerr, argv)) <= 0) {
 		fprintf(stderr,"%s failed to spawn3 '%s' ret = %d\n",
 			prgname, argv[1], childpid);
 		return 2;
 	}
 	/* close stdin to the child - don't need it here */
 	fclose(childin);
 
 	/* watch child stdin/stderr */
 	FD_ZERO(&allfds);
 	FD_SET(fileno(childout),&allfds);
 	FD_SET(fileno(childerr),&allfds);
 	alltv.tv_sec = 0;
 	alltv.tv_usec = 100;
 
 	/* capture stderr to an expandable array */
 	cerr = uvec_ctor(20);

 	maxfd = (fileno(childout) > fileno(childerr)
 		? fileno(childout) : fileno(childerr)) + 1;
 	printf(
 "== stdout ============================================================\n");
 
 	cnt = 10;
 	while (--cnt) {
 		cfds = allfds;
 		tv = alltv;
 		if ((selval = select(maxfd,&cfds,NULL,NULL,&tv)) < 0 ) {
 			perror("select error");
 			break;
 		}
 		if (FD_ISSET(fileno(childout),&cfds)) {
 			*bufout = '\0';
 			fgets(bufout, MAXBUFF, childout);
 			if (feof(childout)) FD_CLR(fileno(childout),&allfds);
 			if (*bufout) printf("%s", bufout);
 			cnt = 10;
 		} 
 		if (FD_ISSET(fileno(childerr),&cfds)) {
 			*buferr = '\0';
 			fgets(buferr, MAXBUFF, childerr);
 			if (feof(childerr)) FD_CLR(fileno(childerr),&allfds);
 			uvec_push(cerr,buferr);
 			cnt = 10;
 		}
 		/* break if no more to select */
 		if (!FD_ISSET(fileno(childout),&allfds)
 		&&  !FD_ISSET(fileno(childerr),&allfds)) break;
 	}
 
 	fclose(childout);
 	fclose(childerr);
 
 	argv = uvec_vector(cerr);
 	printf(
 "== stderr ============================================================\n");
 	while (*argv) {
 		printf("%s",*argv++);
 	}
 	uvec_dtor(&cerr);
 
 	printf(
 "== exit   ============================================================\n");
 	waitpid(childpid, &status, 0);
 	if (WIFEXITED(status)) retexit = WEXITSTATUS(status);
 	printf("exit = '%d'\n", retexit);
 	printf(
 "== end    ============================================================\n");
 	return retexit;
 }

.fi

After the output is read and an EOF is received, the calling program should
close the file stream and wait for the child process.

.SH DIAGNOSTICS

The errors are handled by rkoperror() (if RKOERROR is defined),
else it goes to stderr.

.SH BUGS
None discovered yet.

.SH AUTHOR
R.K.Owen,Ph.D.

.KEY WORDS
